# Atlan AI
(source: https://docs.atlan.com/product/capabilities/atlan-ai/concepts/what-is-atlan-ai)

Atlan AIAtlan MCPDocumentationLineage AnalysisConceptsAtlan AI securityWhat's Atlan AI?

Atlan MCP

Documentation

Lineage Analysis

ConceptsAtlan AI securityWhat's Atlan AI?

Atlan AI security

What's Atlan AI?

Configure Atlan

Atlan AI

Concepts

What's Atlan AI?

➕Available to customers in Enterprise and Business-Critical platform editions

You can use Atlan AI to supercharge the documentation of your data assets and gain meaningful insights from your data estate in Atlan.

Atlan usesAzure OpenAI Serviceto power Atlan AI. Atlan doesnotsend any data to the AI service and only uses metadata for supported capabilities. For questions about data security, seeAtlan AI security.



## Enable Atlan AI​
(source: https://docs.atlan.com/product/capabilities/atlan-ai/concepts/what-is-atlan-ai)

You will need to be anadmin userin Atlan to enable Atlan AI.

Only admin users in Atlan can enable Atlan AI for their organization. Once enabled, each user's existingpermissionsandaccess policiesin Atlan will determine how they can use Atlan AI. For example, a user must have the permission to edit metadata to use Atlan AI for updating asset descriptions.

To enable Atlan AI for your Atlan users:

From the left menu of any screen in Atlan, clickAdmin.

From the left menu of any screen in Atlan, clickAdmin.

Under theWorkspaceheading, clickLabs.

Under theWorkspaceheading, clickLabs.

On theLabspage, under theAtlan AIheading:Turn onEnrich metadatato enable your users to use Atlan AI fordocumenting assets,explaining lineage transformations, andgenerating aliases.

On theLabspage, under theAtlan AIheading:

Turn onEnrich metadatato enable your users to use Atlan AI fordocumenting assets,explaining lineage transformations, andgenerating aliases.

(Optional) ForCustomize Atlan AI, click theAdd instructionsbutton to make Atlan AI suggestions more relevant to your organization. In theEnhance suggestionsdialog, forGeneral instructions, describe your organization and add details about your product, mission, and more, and then clickSave.

(Optional) ForCustomize Atlan AI, click theAdd instructionsbutton to make Atlan AI suggestions more relevant to your organization. In theEnhance suggestionsdialog, forGeneral instructions, describe your organization and add details about your product, mission, and more, and then clickSave.

You have now unleashed the power of Atlan AI for your users! 🎉

If you'd like to disable Atlan AI from your organization's Atlan workspace, follow the steps above to turn it off.

IfAtlan AI is disabled, the feature will no longer be available in your workspace. However, any descriptions previously generated by Atlan AI and added to your assets or saved SQL queries will still be available.



## Current capabilities​
(source: https://docs.atlan.com/product/capabilities/atlan-ai/concepts/what-is-atlan-ai)



### Use Atlan AI to document assets​
(source: https://docs.atlan.com/product/capabilities/atlan-ai/concepts/what-is-atlan-ai)

Atlan AI puts you in control of your data estate in Atlan, helping you curate meaningful context for your data assets. Accept, reject, or edit any AI-powered suggestions, the choice isyours.

You can use Atlan AI to:

Document tables and views with AI-generated descriptions

Document columns with AI-generated descriptions

Document terms and categories with AI-generated descriptions

Document terms with AI-generated READMEs

Add an Atlan AI-generated alias to supported assets

To ensure full transparency, any changes made using Atlan AI will be marked asUpdated using Atlan AIin theactivity log.



### Use Atlan AI for lineage analysis​
(source: https://docs.atlan.com/product/capabilities/atlan-ai/concepts/what-is-atlan-ai)

Atlan AI can help you understandlineage transformationsusing natural language. You can use Atlan AI to create a natural language explanation for assets with SQL attributes and help you better understand the transformation logic.

You can use Atlan AI to:

Explain lineage transformations

atlan-ai

Enable Atlan AI

Current capabilities
