# Atlan architecture
(source: https://docs.atlan.com/platform/references/atlan-architecture)

Get StartedWhat is Atlan?Quick Start GuidesCore ConceptsAdministrationSecurity & ComplianceReferencesAtlan architectureProduct release stagesOur 3 pro tips for saving time with AtlanThe DataOps Culture CodeHow are product updates deployed?Quality assurance frameworkFAQs

What is Atlan?

Quick Start Guides

Core Concepts

Administration

Security & Compliance

ReferencesAtlan architectureProduct release stagesOur 3 pro tips for saving time with AtlanThe DataOps Culture CodeHow are product updates deployed?Quality assurance framework

Atlan architecture

Product release stages

Our 3 pro tips for saving time with Atlan

The DataOps Culture Code

How are product updates deployed?

Quality assurance framework

FAQs

Get Started

References

Atlan architecture

Atlan is a cloud-first solution. Single-tenant SaaS is the recommended deployment model. Atlan currently supports hosting tenants on the following cloud platforms:



### Amazon Web Services (AWS)​
(source: https://docs.atlan.com/platform/references/atlan-architecture)



### Microsoft Azure​
(source: https://docs.atlan.com/platform/references/atlan-architecture)



### Google Cloud Platform (GCP)​
(source: https://docs.atlan.com/platform/references/atlan-architecture)

The components of Atlan are isolated, across both compute and data. For more details, seeHow are resources isolated?



## Platform components​
(source: https://docs.atlan.com/platform/references/atlan-architecture)

Kongis an API gateway. It handles rate limiting and token verification on all incoming API requests.

Apache Keycloakis an identity and access management component. It manages everything to do with users, login, SSO and so on.

Heracles is Atlan's API service. It houses the business logic used by the frontend and APIs to interact with other platform components.

PostgreSQLis a SQL database. Many services on the platform use it for storage.

HashiCorp Vaultis a secret manager. It stores sensitive credentials provided by the user.

Apache Rangeris the policy engine. It provides fine-grained access control over data in the metastore.

Argo Workflowsis a workflow orchestrator for k8s. It runs and manages long-running jobs in a container and k8s-native fashion.

Admission Controller is a k8s admission controller. It performs certain actions when Argo Workflows are updated such as workflow alerts.

Metastore stores metadata as data in a graph store. It is based onApache Atlasand has fine-grained access control on top.Apache Zookeepermanages consensus and coordination for the metastore services.Elasticsearchindexes data and drives search functionality.Apache Cassandrais an object-oriented database used to store the metastore's data.

Apache Zookeepermanages consensus and coordination for the metastore services.

Elasticsearchindexes data and drives search functionality.

Apache Cassandrais an object-oriented database used to store the metastore's data.

Apache Kafkais an event stream. It enables event-driven use cases across the platform.

Heka is Atlan's SQL component. It parses, rewrites and optimizes SQL queries and is powered byApache Calcite.

Redisis a cache layer used by Heracles.



## Platform management components​
(source: https://docs.atlan.com/platform/references/atlan-architecture)

Veleroperforms cluster backups.

Kibanaexplores and filters log data stored in Elasticsearch.

Fluent Bitis a logging and metrics processor. It parses and pushes logs from pods to various destinations.

Elasticsearchstores and indexes logs.



## Central components​
(source: https://docs.atlan.com/platform/references/atlan-architecture)

Zendutyis used for incident response. Alerts are sent when something goes wrong in one of the clusters.

Argo CDis used for continuous deployment. Changes in git repositories lead to upgrades in the clusters.

Github Actionsupdate the Docker container images as part of the development process.

Sendgridis used to send emails.

The frontend is aVue.jsweb application that's hosted on S3 and delivered viaAmazon CloudFrontcontent delivery network (CDN) service.

Alertmanagersends alerts generated by metrics stored in Prometheus.

Grafanaprovides observability dashboards.

VictoriaMetricsis a fast, cost-effective, and scalable monitoring solution and time series database. It processes high volumes of data and enables long-term storing.



## Atlan marketplace(not pictured)​
(source: https://docs.atlan.com/platform/references/atlan-architecture)

The marketplace offers packages (workflows) that perform long-running tasks on the Atlan platform. The ecosystem enables the creation of metadata and lineage connectors.

Seesecurity.atlan.comfor the latest policies and standards, reports and certifications, architecture, diagrams and more.

security

access-control

permissions

Platform components

Platform management components

Central components

Atlan marketplace (not pictured)
